# Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem
SVD project and training data for the study area (Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem, USA) used for the paper:

"A scalable model of vegetation transitions using deep neural networks", by Werner Rammer and Rupert Seidl.

"Widespread regeneration failure in forests of Greater Yellowstone under scenarios of future climate and fire", by Werner Rammer, Kristin H. Braziunas, Winslow D. Hansen, Zak Ratajczak, A. Leroy Westerling, Monica G. Turner, Rupert Seidl


## SVD-project "GYE"

The folder `project` contains all files for running SVD for the GYE:

* configuration file (`config_full_cc_202004.conf`) for SVD
* pre-trained DNNs (`dnn/frozen_graph36.pb`), and DNN metadata (`dnn/graph_meta_v36.txt`)
* spatial data of the project area (site data, initial state, DEM) (`gis` folder). *Note*: to circumvent GitHub's size policy some files in the `gis`  folder are zipped. Unzip in the same folder before running SVD!
* climate data for driving the simulations for several climate scenarios (folder `climate`). Switch scenarios with the `climate.file` and `climate.sequence` settings in the configuration file.

Model code and executable can be found at https://github.com/SVDmodel/SVD
Note that the last version includes a CPU-only version of TensorFlow. Therefore, running SVD should be rather straightforward (under Windows): just start the `SVDUI.exe` from the `executable` folder.

In a nutshell, to run the model, open the `config_full_cc_202004.conf` in the SVD executable, and click "Run". Detailed instructions for using the SVD model
are available at https://svdmodel.github.io/SVD/#/svdUI

## Training script and data

The folder `training` contains:

* `npka.py`, `npka_noDB_noD.py`: Python scripts for training a DNN with TensorFlow
* additional python scripts (`climate.py`, `examples.py`, `iLand_env.py`, `utils.py`)
* Training data (`data` folder) that was generated by the process based model [iLand](iland.boku.ac.at); 
the data was derived from multiple PBM runs for the Nationalpark Kalkalpen under 
different climate scenarios (3.4 GB in total)
* additional site data (constant environmental factors for soil) and a table of the used vegetation states

### Network training

The DNN training facilitates the [TensorFlow](tensorflow.org) framework and the 
high-level [Keras](https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/keras) library.

In order to perform network training, TensorFlow needs to [installed](tensorflow.org/install) on your machine.

A good starting point is the `npka.py` script. 

Training is known to work for TensorFlow versions 1.04 to 1.12.

